---
locale: en
category: about-rules-gobernance
title: Rules and gobernance
---

The formula-d rules have been established to offer
a standardization for competitive events
of drone racing.

Rotor sports are typically described
as contests involving air vehicles do not
manned (UAV) with one or more camera systems
and First Person View (FPV), also known as drones or wings.

These rules were created with the understanding of
that rotor sports are evolving
quickly and such rules must be receptive to
the needs of the community.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Definition of terms

+ DNS: Not started: The aircraft can not cross the start gate.

+ DNF: Not finalized: The aircraft does not comply with all the requirements established by the respective competition guidelines.

+ DQ: Disqualified: Disqualification parameters detailed in this document.

+ OOB: Out of bounds: the aircraft exceeds the specified area for each respective runway design.

{: .text-main-1}
#### General piloting guidelines

+ All pilots must have civil liability insurance,
an organizational membership and they must meet the requirements
specified to be able to compete; all pilots must meet
with the rules and regulations of safe operation and flight according to
what is defined by the organization formula-d.

+ All pilots must comply with the applicable regulations established by the country
where the event unfolds.

+ Illegal flights, such as flights near an event in
places where flying is prohibited, may result in the disqualification of the event.

+ All pilots must attend a general information session of
security and sign the corresponding exemptions of the organizer and the place of the race.

+ All pilots must be able to demonstrate effective procedures to test
Faults defined by the Race Director. In most cases, this is a method of
"fall", where the aircraft will immediately suspend the flight by stopping all engines and
the operation if it loses contact with the radio transmitter.

+ All pilots must have a switch or position sequence "ARMING" on their radio.
The drone should not be turned on by any accidental control of the radio.
The assembly of the aircraft must be executed through a control switch.

+ All pilots must demonstrate an airworthiness structure and pass a test
general of mechanics and electronics. All the tests will be executed by the Race Director.

+ All batteries must be transported and stored in bags
LiPo-safe or in an approved and fire resistant container.

+ Pilots must use FPV to pilot the drones.
This can be with glasses or a ground station, LCD type screen.

+ Pilots will not turn on video transmitters unless instructed to do so.
The Race Director will give his approval to participate in a race.
Turning on the video transmitter at any other time may result in an immediate disqualification of the event.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Operations in place

+ Pilots must comply with all rules within the
place of competition, and will not fly anywhere else
of the place unless it is a designated flight zone.

+ The pilots must contain all the equipment and
fuselages within the designated pilot picket area.

+ A public loading area will be available and
they will supply 110 or 220 volts as appropriate.
It is recommended that riders bring personal chargers and extension cable.

+ General charge of electronic devices including
radios or any device with a stand-alone power supply.

+ All batteries should be stored in a LiPo safety bag or in
an approved container resistant to fire.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Event insurance requirements

+ All interested parties, including the organizing company,
the location and location of the site, the sponsors and
Participants must have acceptable insurance policies
and adequate (general responsibility and aviation specification / event)
before participating in any aspect of the event.
These policies have been defined with the various contracts and agreements
celebrated between the organizers and their insurers.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Judges and supervision

+ All races will be administered by a designated team of judges.

+ All races will follow the general rules and regulations
of the competition.

+ Each race will be supervised by judges, cameras, timing / lap systems and / or marshals to maintain fair and accurate competition.

+ In the event of a collision in the air, pilots can resume the race if
they can take off again without intervention; otherwise its heat will be considered an abandonment.

+ Any practice or behavior considered unsafe
(ie, flying above the maximum ceiling height)
will lead to a disqualification

{: .text-main-1}
#### Responsibilities of the pilot

+ Pilots are responsible for operating and maintaining their own equipment.

+ Pilots are also responsible for guaranteeing operations
of proper flight through the timing gates and register
all official schedules. If the time is not registered in the system
of official timing or is recorded incorrectly, it is the responsibility
of the pilot to show the precise time (through an original DVR recording) or another method.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Start of the race

+ With the premature start before the official tone: the pilot will lose 1 lap.

+ Pilots can request a reprogramming due to difficulties
technical, if the pilot notifies the Race Director before the start.

+ The Clerk of the Course has absolute discretion about the approval or
Denial of any application listed above.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Disqualifications

+ Any pilot who is not physically present on the flight line
fully prepared to compete at the time of your scheduled turn you will receive a
DNF.

+ Two or more DNF for not showing will cause the disqualification of the event.

+ Flying out of bounds: any pilot that flies out of bounds,
including the maximum height of the roof, you will receive a DNF for the current race.
Pilots who receive two infractions will be completely disqualified.

+ Excessive celebratory displays will not be allowed while
the race is still active. Any interference caused by a pilot or the
fuselage will result in a DNF for that problem.
Two DNFs will result in the disqualification of the event.

+ Unsportsmanlike conduct will not be tolerated.

+ All decisions made by the Race Director or the Judge are final.

{: .text-main-1}
#### General guidelines for airplane armor

+ All fuselages must pass a safety inspection and
airworthiness Once the fuselage has been reviewed and approved,
It must not be modified or changed or it will be necessary to re-inspect it.
Armor must be repaired with equivalent parts that were originally used
during check-in The inspector has the final decision on whether to accept
fuselage and / or if it requires changes or modifications to be approved in order to compete.

+ Fuselages must use official video transmitters provided by the organizers of the event unless otherwise specified.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Field operations, course and place

The field is explicitly controlled by the director of the
flight line of the event, as well as by the race commissar
and the career director. These officials have the ability
to disqualify any driver for any reason and have
plus the ability to stop a race or a flight in any
moment and for any reason.

{: .text-main-1}
#### The field and the place are governed by the Safety and Race Commissioners of the place.

+ The flight field is a restricted space and only authorized personnel are
allowed in these flight lands.

+ All flights will land while there are personnel in the field.

+ All personnel in the flight area must wear a protective helmet, safety glasses and a high visibility vest.

+ The personnel involved in the active recovery of any fuselage must wear gloves of
High resistance and should immediately withdraw all the battery's energy from the aircraft.

+ Depending on the size of the field, it must have at least four (4) extinguishers on the side,
with two basic first aid kits ready to be deployed immediately.

+ Metal covers (such as a trash can lid) should be available
so that all drone recovery teams use it as a shield if other methods of recovery are not successful.

+ A First Aid station will be located in the Pilot area
Pits or in an area that is easy and convenient for driving the event.

+ An EMT station should be located within the immediate vicinity of the field,
as defined in the local first aid policies.

+ Event organizers must have two-way radios with one channel
designated for flight operations and communications of
first aid / emergency. All directors (operations, flight, evaluation)
they must have access to a radio. It is highly recommended that any personnel of
Fuselage recovery in the field also have a radio.

+ Drone recovery crews should not enter the field until
all aircraft have landed. Drone recovery equipment should
timely eliminate all parts of the battery, components and various
remains of the field and make a quick analysis of the structure to see if they have
recovered all the pieces. If a fuselage is still on and the accessories turn,
crew members should try to indicate safely by
manual signals through the pilot camera, the signal "Thumbs Down"
to indicate to the pilot to turn off his aircraft. In all cases, do not try
manipulate an aircraft that has engines engaged, turning or turning on.
Use the metal plate to cover the ship.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Official dimensions and limits of the route

+ The course of the race must be within an established format,
like a football field or other suitable area.

+ The flight route must have an intermediate security zone with a minimum
10 meters away to any viewer or construction area
to reduce the amount of energy and impact on the network.

+ Course designs must take into account the direction of the flight and the
Energy. Flight routes should not direct 100% of the force of the
fuselage energy directly to the audience unless there is a
considerable distance and barriers to protect the audience.

+ Accidents and other impacts that cause the aircraft to be altered
from their flight path should be considered and implemented in the design.

+ There must be a mesh of 10 meters high (or as high as necessary
to cover the front of a structure that provides a barrier
alternative natural) with a minimum of 1 meter of cushioning on each side
for the recovery of impacts. Spectators should not stop unless
of 3 meters of the network.

+ The mesh must be of high tensile strength, with a size of
maximum fabric of 45 millimeters (either square or diamond).
This is to ensure that there are multiple capture points in case
one of the squares is broken by impact.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Timing systems

+ A site timing system will be provided

{:.text-main-1}
#### Procedures of descending count of regatas

+ It is recommended that competitions use a four-stage process
for all races, although individual events may choose to use
a different process. Each stage is designed to verify the various
conditions, prepare video transmitters and have all the pilots organized
and ready to compete. Each stage has a specialist who will review each
pilot and fuselage. All pilots will advance together through each stage. The
Stages for the Mini Class racing series are the following:

  * **Stage 4** (Three series of the flight deck): verification of
airworthiness prior to flight. All fuselages will be checked
by stamps and marks valid with the initial security checks.
If they are not present, the pilot must go through the security control and
Receive a new seal or brand. At this time, all cables, connectors,
accessories and electronic components will be reviewed by the specialist.

  * **Stage 3** (From flight deck): pilots will be assigned a position
of the race and they will receive their video transmitter to join it to the fuselage. All cables
must be connected and the video transmitter with velcro must be attached to the frame
of the aircraft. The aircraft must not be turned on at this time.

  * **Stage 2** (On the flight deck): the pilots will deliver their fuselage to their
observer and he will take you to the start / end area. Pilots can
Turn on your glasses or screens, but you also may not turn on your radio at this time.

  * **Stage 1** (On the flight deck): pilots will go to their assigned seat in
the flight deck and turn on your radios within the specified time period.
Observers will turn on the cells and watch your videos. The observer will show the
number of fingers in front of the pilot camera to confirm that the
video has been processed correctly. The pilot must give a "Like" to the Director of the
pilot line when they have been properly turned on and have video power
correct Pilots should not arm themselves until directed by the Director of the pilot line.

+ All pilots who are not ready within the specified time period will receive
a DNS signal for the specified topic. Once all the pilots have given the
"Thumbs Up" sign, the countdown to the beginning of the race will begin. It will proceed
as follows by the Career Advertiser:

  * Ready drivers (indicated by the pilot's thumbs up).

  * Pilots, have your plane.

  * The race will start in less than 5.

+ A short and high sound will indicate the start of the race.

+ If the arrest of a race was ordered for any reason, the Director of the Line
Pilot will give instructions to the pilots and everyone should follow the procedures
prescribed. Pilots who do not comply with the statements of the Line Director of
flight, the Race Commissioner or the Race Director may result in a
immediate disqualification of the event.


{: .text-main-1}
#### Rules of participation in the race

+ Pilots must remain within all prescribed flight routes.

+ Pilots must keep all aircraft in disarmed state until
receive the "ARM" signal from the Race Director or Advertiser. This will happen only
when the aircraft has been placed on the departure platform and all the personnel
Field has left the area.

+ Pilots must comply with the prescribed launch sequence. Without
movement before the start signal. False beginnings will incur a penalty.

+ Pilots must maintain control of their aircraft at all times and only fly
within your skill level. Any pilot who exhibits flight procedures
insecure can be disqualified at any time of the event.

+ Once the pilots have successfully completed all the laps,
they must return to the start / arrival platform, land and DISARM. The pilots
they must give the Pilot Line Director a "Thumbs Up" so that they have completed their flight.

+ Pilots who have crashed at any point during the flight and can not
resume races must DISASSEMBLE their aircraft, give the Pilot Line Director
an indication of "Thumbs Down" and wait until the competition ends. He
Fuselage will be recovered by the field team.

+ The pilots must fly successfully through all obstacles in the race.
If a pilot encounters an obstacle, he must turn safely and try
overcome the obstacle again. They will have up to two more attempts before being disqualified.
The judges will travel through FPV with the pilot and will immediately indicate if the same
You must correct any flight path error. In addition, the director of the line can
tell the rider that an obstacle has not been overcome. In this case, the pilot must
Immediately and surely return to the obstacle not overcome and try to navigate it again successfully.

+ The maximum ceiling height predetermined for these events is 15 meters, unless
otherwise specified. Any violation of the maximum ceiling will result in the
immediate disqualification of his rapist. If the pilot receives two altitude infringements
from the roof or out of bounds at any time during the event, the pilot will remain
completely disqualified. If a pilot has broken the roof's limits or has left those
limits, you must immediately land your aircraft in a safe place in the field.
The Pilot Line Director or a judge will provide further instructions.

+ In case of an accident or the inability to resume the flight safely, the pilot
You must immediately DISASSEMBLE your aircraft and give the "Thumbs Down" signal.

+ Field personnel can use several hand signals in front of the pilot camera to
indicate your airworthiness status. "Thumbs Up" means that the pilot is preset
for the flight. "Thumbs Down" means that the ship is damaged and can not fly. In all
the cases should be disarmed and wait for more instructions.

+ Pilots can have multiple fuselages; each fuselage must pass all the checks
of security and airworthiness before flying.

+ The Flight Line Director, the Race Director or the Race Commissioner have the right
to disqualify any driver for any reason if the driving behavior is considered
unsafe or if the pilot has breached any rule or regulation of this document.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Emergency or fail-safe procedures

+ In the event that a pilot loses control of his aircraft, he must attempt a safe landing,
fly to a prescribed zone network, crash, "catch", cut the accelerator in a safe area
or execute a fail-safe procedure in a secure area.

+ If a pilot loses the video, he must immediately execute a fail-safe procedure and / or
try to land the plane through the line of sight. All observers must help the
pilot to determine the location of your aircraft.

+ Observers must maintain a visual line of sight of the fuselage of the corresponding pilot
at all times and must provide verbal instructions or details of conscience
situational If the aircraft breaks the maximum height of the roof or exits the limits, a judge will indicate
to the pilot the infraction and the observer must immediately help the pilot to maintain control
and land safely.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Racing competition structure

+ It is recommended that competitions use the following structure, although individual events
They can choose to use a different structure.

  * **Practice:** pilots can practice in the designated fields before the event. The practice routes can be time-controlled.

  * **Qualifiers:** Competitions may include one or more rounds of qualifiers,
either as a result of the best individual lap time or the best full race time.

  * **Main lines A and B:** competitions may include one or more rounds of series
principal, with the best complete career time, arrival order or a system based
in points according to the order of arrival to decide the advance to the final.

  * **Finals A and B:** the pilots who advance from the network will compete in finals, with the best
full career time, arrival order or a point-based system, depending on the
order of arrival to decide the final results.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Video transmitters

+ Selected video transmitters are required to compete in the drone racing series.

  * Output power: 25mw - 250mw or switchable.

  * Required channels: Capable band, 40 channels.

* Turning them on at any time when you are not competing will result in immediate disqualification.

* All runners are required to provide a VTX of 200
adequate mw. Keep in mind that VTx requirements may
change by event. They will be used and will determine 25mw or 200mw before the event.

* All pilots must be able to fully understand all operations
of your Tx, and be able to change channels and power as required
down the track and the race officials. In all cases other than careers,
the Tx must be off. The channels will be pre-assigned before the race.
Brokers must be able to change the channels in their VTX with relative ease
if so required by the director of the race.

{: .text-main-1}
#### RH and LH antennas

* Recommended axial ratio: .6

* It is highly recommended to bring several sets of antennas for hand
right and left. Also update your antennas to the latest
iterations (axial relationships of .60 or better) to guarantee
a clean signal with a greater number of pilots per course in several tracks.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Eyewear requirements

Pilots with glasses can connect to ground stations with
the cables provided. If you have other glasses, you can bring your own RCA adapter.

{: .text-main-1}
#### Drones checks

* The slogans and verifications are intended to maintain the aircraft
and the assistants within a minimum security parameters, since
to the concentration and diversity of material that we find, we must
maintain valid Security standards for all.

* If any of the conditions is not met, the pilot will have an area of
boxes and technical assistance, where you can correct them.

* Once all the checks have been completed, the aircraft will be marked with nail polish
or similar, in a visible place, to confirm that it is VERIFIED and is suitable
to fly.

* Before each flight, it will be verified that the aircraft that are going to go out on track,
They carry the VERIFICATION mark.

* All participants are reminded that it is strictly prohibited
connect any aircraft inside the enclosure WITH THE PROPELLERS PLACED.
The Organization must provide an insured space for pilots to
make flight tests in the third person.

* We list from 1 to 5 the slogans that the technical verification team
STAFF will take place at the time of entry to the site.

  1. **Video transmitter** The video transmitter must be removed from the quad, or in its absence, ensure its
disconnection

  2. **VTX wiring** Check that the two Mollex cables are connected and with the
tongue canceled

  3. **Glasses** The receiver wearing the glasses must be removed to avoid problems.

  4. **Propellers** It is not allowed to bring the propellers on when you are going to manipulate the
quad

  5. **FailSafe** Failsafe system check of the effective quad. (broadcaster or controller)

{: .text-main-1}
#### Summary

These regulations are developed for the Drone Racing Committee.
It is our intention that they help guide and act as a clear definition
for competitive drone races across the country.














